Our text comments contain this thought.
If you look about halfway down,
there's a sentence that says,
feeling tender compassion will move us to acts of kindness.
It's interesting the Bible in different places
links those two qualities together.
For example, Ephesians 432 states become kind
to one another, tenderly compassionate.
Insight on the Scriptures defines compassion this way.
It's a sympathetic awareness
of another suffering or adversity
coupled with a desire to alleviate it.
So we have the awareness,
we have the feeling along with that desire to act kindly.
But sadly, as the watchtower once mentioned,
the moral climate of our time has killed compassion
in the hearts of so many.
A watching the world item highlighted that
some years ago in the awake,
in Italy, a six-year-old girl and her father
were driving to the beach.
As they entered a tunnel,
the father, who was only in his thirties,
suddenly suffered a heart attack.
Before he died,
he told his little girl to find her way home.
She struggled out of the tunnel,
repeatedly blown over by gusts of wind
from cars that zip by without slowing.
Scratched, bleeding, and in tears,
she walked along the highway for half an hour,
ignored by hundreds of passing cars filled with vacationers,
until finally one car stopped to help.
Newspaper editorials around the country
asked searching questions,
such as whether the country's affluence
had made it lose some of the warmth and compassion
for which did Longbin famous.
One newspaper mentioned,
along the happy road of vacation,
there were no scheduled stops for attending
to the pain of others.
Well, that account sadly illustrates the world
that we live in.
Let's talk a little bit more about this quality of compassion.
We'll consider when compassion should not be shown.
We'll look at an example of Jehovah's compassion,
and then we'll consider in some practical ways
that we can show compassion.
First, there are times when compassion should not be shown.
For example, if someone deliberately persists in sin,
it would be wrong to feel that we should
compassionately shield them from discipline.
See, that would be misplaced compassion.
Let's notice an example in ancient Israel.
Please turn with me to Deuteronomy chapter 13.
Deuteronomy 13, if you look in verse six,
the Israelites were commanded that if a brother, child,
well, you notice there are some expressions
such as cherished wife or closest companion.
If any of those were to urge a person
to serve other gods, notice the instruction in verse eight,
you must not give in to him or listen to him,
nor should you show pity or feel compassion or protect him.
Instead, you should kill him without fail.
Now, why was that so important?
Why was it important not to show compassion?
Well, verse 11,
then all Israel will hear and become afraid
and they will never again do anything bad like this among you.
So it was for a protection for the nation.
If someone tried to turn an Israelite from serving Jehovah,
that was not the time to show compassion.
Yielding to pressure to show compassion
when it's contrary to God's will can have serious consequences.
So we certainly need to avoid misplaced compassion.
Now let's consider an example of Jehovah's compassion.
Turn with me to Exodus chapter three.
Exodus chapter three,
while tending to his father-in-law's sheep,
Moses saw something he'd never seen before.
And I dare say none of us have ever seen it either.
Moses saw a thorn bush on fire, but it wasn't being consumed.
So Moses decided to go and investigate.
By means of an angel, Jehovah spoke to Moses
from the midst of the fire and noticed what he said in verse five.
Do not come any near.
Remove your sandals from your feet
because the place where you are standing is holy ground.
So just think because the holy God was present
representatively, the ground itself became holy.
Now keep that thought in mind.
We're gonna come back to it.
Let's focus now on Jehovah's compassion
for his people who were suffering in Egypt.
Notice verse seven.
Jehovah added,
I have certainly seen the affliction of my people
who are in Egypt and I have heard their outcry
because of those who forced them to work.
I well know the pains they suffer.
So Jehovah wasn't blind to the misery of his people.
He wasn't deaf to their cries for help.
Their anguish became his own.
Did you notice the expression at the end of the verse?
I well know the pains they suffer.
Regarding the phrase, I well know one reference work states,
the expression implies personal feeling, tenderness and compassion.
So Jehovah's words here reveal a deeply concerned,
caring and compassionate God.
And what would Jehovah do?
Would he act kindly on that compassion?
Well, we know he was going to,
verse 10 in part,
Jehovah commissioned Moses,
bring my people out of Egypt.
You know, this account should be encouraging to us.
We can be sure that Jehovah sees our adversities.
He hears our cries for help.
He knows the pain that we suffer at times.
But Jehovah just doesn't feel compassion for us.
Now he's moved to act kindly.
Why?
First Peter 5.7.
He cares for each one of us.
God's compassion also gives us reason for hope.
One sister who struggled with depression and discouragement
found comfort in this account about Moses and the Thornbush.
You remember the holy ground that we read about in verse 5?
The sister said,
if Jehovah can make even the dirt holy,
then maybe there's a little hope for me.
See, she benefited from Jehovah's compassion.
Well, so far we've seen the need to avoid misplace compassion.
We've considered Jehovah's example
of not only feeling compassion,
but acting kindly on it.
How can we imitate him?
One quality that can help is love,
unselfish love of neighbor.
Let's consider two practical ways that can help us,
that we can show this type of compassion.
First, compassion will help us to avoid reacting harshly
when others make mistakes.
Remember earlier we quoted Ephesians 432,
linking kindness and compassion.
Well, let's turn to the verse just previous.
Ephesians 4, turn and let's read verse 31.
Ephesians 431, keep that thought in mind.
Compassion will help us to avoid reacting harshly
when others make mistakes.
Verse 31, put away from yourselves every kind of malicious
bitterness, anger, wrath, screaming and abuse of speech
as well as everything injurious.
And then verse 32 says,
But there's the connector,
but become kind to one another, tenderly compassionate.
So whether at home, in the congregation,
at Bethel on construction sites, wherever we may be,
let's allow love, this unselfish love of neighbor
to cause us to show compassion
and avoid reacting harshly when others make mistakes.
A second way that love can help us to be compassionate
is that it will help us to avoid
the imperfect tendency to abuse power.
Colossians 312 states,
clothe yourselves with the tender affections of compassion,
kindness, they're the two linked together again,
and then the verse adds humility or lowliness of mind.
The watchtower once made this point about that verse.
Lowliness of mind enables us to put ourselves
in the position of those under our supervision.
To be compassionate involves being humble
and reasonable rather than hard to please.
Efficiency should not be an excuse
for treating people as mere parts of a machine.
Good points to keep in mind.
So those are two ways that love can help us to be compassionate,
avoid reacting harshly when others make mistakes
and avoid the imperfect tendency to abuse power.
So while the moral climate has killed compassion
in the hearts of so many today,
we want to be known for our compassion.
Of course, never would we want to display misplaced compassion
if someone deliberately persists in sin.
Rather, we want to imitate Jehovah
and kindly act on our feelings of compassion for those in need.
So as we go about our day,
let's look for ways that we can heed the admonition
there at Ephesians 432,
become kind to one another, tenderly compassionate.